Testing, one, two, three, four, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, testing, testing site.
And when I talk about that, and so you, you were a editor here for a bit of biography, if you don't mind.
Well, I was an editor for, or in the editorial department for 29 years.
Wow.
Wow, that's right.
And, uh... Well, that covered some really, very,
It covers the growth of the press, really.
And, uh, I don't know how much you want to know.
I started out as an editor, and my fields are political science, economics, and law, and Chester, her at that moment, was looking for someone in political science for what was going to be a science, I think, and I wandered in the door.
So, I was hired, and, uh,
I started out in this building next to this one on the corner there, and I was there for about a couple months, and then we moved over to York Street.
And at last I became, I don't remember the title, something like managing editor or something like that after a while, but I kept on doing my editorial work.
And then I decided, well, I don't know how much you really want to know, but I wondered how far... As much as you care to tell me, really.
I wondered how far a woman could go, and I was interested... That's very important.
Pardon?
That's very important to me, by the way.
Oh, well, I was interested, and Chester got along very well with his women editors, but I did, at that point, have an administrative job, and I asked what my chances were.
becoming an assistant at it.
This is about what year?
Ooh, maybe 1970.
I really have to guess.
Well, if you were here for 29 years and you were going for 17, so it's 30.
Yeah, I came in 59, so maybe it was in the 60s.
But you started in 59.
I started in 59.
And I observed when I went to meetings of the university presses that in many cases the head of the editorial department was an assistant director.
So I thought, well, I think I'd like to be assistant director.
So I asked Chester what my chances were.
And you've been here about ten years to that point.
Oh, quite a while, yes, easily.
And so I got the message that my chances were like nil.
And why was that, do you think?
Oh, I didn't ask, and he didn't say.
I don't know.
I really don't know.
This is 1970, so we are becoming aware of women's... Oh, yes, and he was in general.
He got along with women editors and with women in all positions, and we never felt any discrimination, really, or I didn't.
With Pace comparable?
I guess not quite.
Not far from being comparable, but I know as far as the editors were concerned, the men, if a man came, was hired, he was likely to be hired at a higher salary than a woman.
When I came to the press, I came from New York, and Chester said, well, you know, our salaries are not as high in New Haven as they are in New York, so I took a cut.
But I observed that several later, when a male editor came from New York, we had to match the New York salary.
So at any rate, I decided if my future was not going to lead in that direction, I would just as soon concentrate on editing.
So I went back to doing editing only.
And then years later, when we were in this building, I felt we had a
You've heard of Ed Tripp, perhaps?
I have, yes.
Edward Tripp, a wonderful person.
A wonderful person, but not really an administrator, and it was clear that somebody was needed who would kind of pull things together, and so I volunteered to do that, and I had the title of executive editor after that.
But I continued doing my books.
So you were the executive editor?
At the time I retired, I was executive editor.
And tell me a bit about that position, what it entailed.
Did you more or less get your pick-up projects to work on?
No.
Well, you see, we were—I don't think it's true today, but at that time, we were pretty well divided up according to fields.
I mean, mine were political science, economics, and law.
And those were the books that I did, and I was responsible for building up those lists.
And another editor was responsible for English lit and anthropology,
And languages, she did our language books.
So she handled those.
And so we didn't reach for projects, really.
Things didn't come in that were unassigned.
And so I handled my own books.
But nothing came over the transcend, so to speak?
Well, it was usually pretty clear whose book it was.
Or if not, I'd see whether anybody was particularly interested.
But, so, the other thing I was interested in was, well, when I first came to the press, we didn't consider the cost or the potential market or what we would make from the book.
You didn't?
We didn't.
And I can remember Chester Kerr standing in my office and saying, as long as I am director of the press, we will not
take into account the potential sales of the manuscript before taking it on.
Well, this was in good old days.
Well, this is important.
I think this is one of the reasons why a change in that perception has... He changed, eventually.
And another editor and I observed at a university press meeting that Princeton was very good at estimating in advance
a number of copies they would sell, how many they would print and all.
So we made up a little form, and it was when I showed that to Chester that he said, uh, we are not going to, uh, he didn't say crass, but, uh, that was the meanings.
But, uh, some years later, I guess, not too long, when the press was having financial difficulties, why we've all that out again, and that time he looked at it, uh,
more seriously, and we took it on.
I can't remember what we called it.
I'm sure they have something like that now.
So that while it didn't affect, was not supposed to affect the decision to accept the manuscript, at least we'd have some clue to how much money we were going to lose.
So then, some years later, when we were focusing even more on this, it's when I was executive editor, I thought
Well, we don't really have an idea of how many books in each list are really good.
I mean, really popular in the syllabi view of How Many Are the Dogs, with titles like Money in Foreign Exchange in Fourteenth-Century France.
That was one of my favorite titles.
And he published that?
How did it do, just generally, if you could find something?
Oh, it did not do very well, I suppose.
I bet we didn't even sell a thousand.
I don't know.
But it was by a really well-respected economist at Yale, and it was a very good book.
It's just that there are not an awful lot of people interested in money in the 14th century of France.
Would a book like that be published today, do you think?
Well, today I have no idea what they publish.
It probably would have been published at the time I left.
We were still publishing like that, some like that, but I thought we ought to know in any forthcoming list how many we had that might sell well, how many we had that were typical university press books, and how many were like money prices and foreign exchange in 14th century France.
By then, yes, Chester was, was Chester here?
No, I think it was John Ryden was here by then.
And so I made out a little chart of A books, which sold this number, B books, another number, C books, which were the not so saleable ones.
But what was an A book in your estimation?
An A book was probably, I think it was over five,
Was it over 5,000?
I'm guessing.
Did you have a lot of books?
Did you have books?
We would have maybe three.
A year?
Yeah.
Or maybe a season.
Now, maybe it was fewer than that.
Maybe it was 2,500.
I honestly don't remember.
And I don't mean to interrupt your train of thought, but I was just
To continue, you made up a list of A books, B books, C books.
A books, B books.
So that every time we went, met once a month in John Ryden's office before the Publications Committee met, and by then he would have a list of the books we thought would make the next list.
And they would be divided up, A books, B books, and C books, so we'd have some clue to what we had on the forthcoming list.
And it might be a moment when John would want to
speed up the production of an A book, because he saw we were a little short, or maybe find means, which editors always can do, of postponing some of the C books.
So how did you decide what was going to be an A book?
I mean, did you get some sort of sense?
Did you have your thumb on the pulse of the audience out there?
Oh, of course.
No, it was our guess, based on other books, and other books we'd had on our list.
We'd compared a lot.
with books that had seemed like that.
And we didn't have the databases that they had today where they could do all of this.
No, we had nothing.
We had nothing now.
Of course, the marketing department played a role in this, and they didn't always agree with the editors' inflated ideas of how much some books would sell.
So, and it was never considered rigid.
These were our expectations for these books, but, and we did
from season to season to see how well books did, so that, uh... So did you keep scoring?
Were you pretty good at it?
Did you read A books, pretty much A books, and your Bs?
Well, I guess, if anything, well, I think we usually overestimated.
Not always by a great deal, but usually by some.
So, um... So a C would be what, like fewer than a thousand?
Yeah.
and often they were dissertations.
We published fewer and fewer dissertations as time applied, but we did feel it was our responsibility to publish a good dissertation.
And you feel that's still the responsibility of the university press, do you think?
Well, I don't know that much about publishing.
I think there may be other ways of getting those manuscripts
to the attention of those who need them.
The electronic alternative, of course, is what they're talking about.
Yeah.
But one very important thing to the author was that if an author had a book published by Yale, the faculty, deciding whether he'd be promoted or not, was very interested.
And sometimes we'd get telephone calls from promotion committees or faculty members in other universities.
asking whether we had accepted a certain book, and they were very impatient and were not terribly pleased if it was still out for reading or still in process.
So did the press kind of indirectly get drawn into this publish-or-perish paradigm?
Oh, yes.
We didn't directly, obviously, and that didn't play any role on the selection part, but clearly if professors were up for it.
or whatever here, and how everything was riding on this dissertation.
Would we speed it up?
Yeah, would you speed it up?
Well, we might.
Did you run into that a lot?
Often, I suppose.
No, no, that wasn't.
Were you alert to it as being part of the subtext, though, that was up there?
Yes, it didn't happen very often.
And, of course, we did know, and it did.
But I don't remember.
We couldn't, on most of those books, you know, spend extra money to get it out faster.
because they were not going to help our bottom lines that much.
But one thing I enjoyed about the press in all the years I was here, that there has always been a very strong sense of our responsibility to publish good scholarship and do the best we could do to
support ourselves.
And this press, as we know now, unlike others, has no subsidy from the university.
That's amazing.
And that it should be operating in the Black College.
It's amazing.
Does that astound you?
It is amazing.
We had some very hard times, and there was a time when Chester Kerr had to borrow from the university.
It had been in his seventies.
And when he said his way of cutting costs
was to cut entire books out.
If we had, what, 54 books on the next list, he'd cut it back to 50, something like that.
That was his way of saving money when times were really bad.
I mean, he never cut staff to save money.
He would just postpone books, and we would have to think of something to tell the authors that would sound plausible.
So did the press operate in the red in those years?
We must have.
I didn't see figures like that.
But we did have to borrow from the university.
So you had to borrow from the university?
Yeah.
I was wondering, because if you weren't getting subsidies, where was the difference coming from?
Well, that's a good question.
Good question.
I should ask somebody that question, right?
Now, during the... when I first came, we were publishing the...
New Math.
You've heard about the New Math?
And I was told that that was really financing the growth of the press.
We weren't supposed to make money, and I think the government eventually asked for some of it back.
You weren't supposed to make money?
No, the reason we published it was that it was financed by the federal government.
On this particular book?
Well, it's a whole series, The New Math, for
So you said you weren't supposed to be making money on this project, not as a press.
On that project.
And that's why they came to University Press.
They didn't want a commercial publisher to be making a lot of money on the federal government's investment.
Times have changed, I guess.
But anyway, so we did make quite a lot of money on that, and I was told that that project really financed the growth of the press, and it grew a lot.
in the 60s and, I guess, 70s, 80s.
How many books are published now?
Close to 300 a year.
Can you believe it?
I mean, that's bigger than most trade houses.
I can remember when we were shooting for 50.
Wow.
You said you came here from New York.
What did you do in New York?
Well, I worked for 10 years for a foundation, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
It was ten years, I think.
And I had worked for another foundation before that.
So this was your first publishing?
First publishing.
I did work mostly in editorial work in this foundation, but this was my first publishing.
So how does someone choose to be an editor?
Do you mind if I shoot a couple of pictures, by the way?
Oh, yeah.
I'm keeping a visual record, too, on the people I'm talking to.
I'll be very... I promise, but great.
You had worked in the foundation, and you had done some editing, you said.
How does one get into editing?
Yeah.
Especially at this level, this kind of editing, too.
This kind of editing?
Well, editing in general, and... Well, I had a master's degree from Columbia in what they called public law and government then, and that is political science.
And...
So what do you do with that?
Well, I thought about going into the State Department.
The State Department could offer me a job as a secretary, but they couldn't offer me a job of any substance.
So I wasn't interested in that.
And then I guess I saw in the paper that somebody was leaving a job at something called the Woodrow Wilson Foundation.
and was working on a publication called The United Nations News, and that happened to be precisely within my zone of interest, so I applied for it and got it.
And that little publication, The United Nations, I've always worked for losers, I guess.
That went out of business, actually, and it was being financed by the Carnegie Endowment, and at that point they had an opening.
And so I just kind of, people drift into editorial work, I think.
So I worked, I did mostly editorial work, some administrative, but mostly editorial.
Now, did you bring authors to the press, or?
To this press?
Yeah.
I mean, once you were established, and once you .
.
Well, at first, we didn't.
We just sat and waited for things to come over the transom.
But as time went on, and we were building the list, it became necessary for us to exert ourselves.
So we did start going out to get authors.
And so what were you looking for?
How did you decide?
Well, I guess all of us were looking for the best scholarship, and often, of course, that was the best-known scholars.
Younger scholars, you could tell, were very promising.
Here at Yale or everywhere in general?
Everywhere.
We went to professional meetings.
We didn't take very many trips, but occasionally we'd go around to a few colleges and universities.
I never found that terribly satisfactory.
But we did go to the meetings, professional meetings, and saw a lot of authors there.
And also, one author would suggest another one.
So there were a variety, and we read the journals in our own fields.
I can't say I read the economics journals very carefully, but I did look at them.
And we did get, we did publish, all of us, a lot of Yale-connected books.
Yale had a first-rate political science department, and we published
a number of dissertations from that department by people who were amazing, people who later became masters in their field.
Can you figure out any examples?
Well, a fellow, let's see, I'm not sure, Stanley Greenberg was one.
He is now, well, he is now a Democratic pollster, very prominent.
Who were some of the others?
Gee, I'm not good on names.
That's okay.
If some jumped out, I'd be curious to know.
Well, they'll probably jump out when I get home.
There were five or six just first-rate political scientists who said, well, Jeffrey, somebody, well, that's not going to help you.
And some of them, I noticed with astonishment, have now retired.
So I saw them from their dissertation to retirement.
So Yale had a first-rate department that attracted very good people.
And they, of course, would suggest other people.
And then the young ones went out and taught elsewhere so that I would be introduced to other people in other departments.
And in economics,
Yale again had a first great Department of Economics.
We published a series on economic development edited by a fellow named Lloyd Reynolds.
Lloyd?
Lloyd, L-L-O-Y-D, Reynolds.
Reynolds.
And he, and this was early, well this must have been in the
maybe late 60s and 70s.
I'm only guessing at these dates.
But he had first-rate economists doing those.
They were short books on various phases of economic development, and a number of those authors have since gotten Nobel Prizes in economics that really are
outstanding group of authors and they started here with you and they started here but that was Lloyd Reynolds came to the press I didn't have to I didn't bring him to the press he came to the press he's a very loyal Yale man and then we published other we didn't have a big book a big list in economics
And a lot of the work, important work in economics, was being done in the journals, anyway.
But it's changed, hasn't it?
The journals are almost... Oh, really?
Well, just journals in general, I think, are on the decline.
They're so expensive.
I know the libraries.
They're looking for the electronic journal stuff.
I mean, that's something that's really going to change, and it's going to continue to change.
Is that where scholars read?
other scholars were.
I think, especially in the sciences, not so much in the humanities and things, but I think you still find journal articles being important.
But they're so expensive, between $30,000 subscriptions and things a year.
Well, of course, they don't have very large markets, so... That's a lot of money.
Well, I don't know.
We always used to expect that something like 40 libraries, I think, that would always buy every book
And I suppose we'd buy every journal, but you couldn't go much beyond that.
Forty.
That was the magic number.
And would that justify the publication of the prediction?
Oh, not, no, not by us.
I don't know about the journals.
So what was the threshold?
For our publication?
Yeah.
Well, probably.
A thousand.
I'm sure we must have done some under a thousand, but I imagine we printed a thousand.
Never sold.
So, what are some of your most memorable projects?
Books?
Well, there was an author at Yale, now emeritus, named Robert Dahl.
His first real book I worked on here at the press was a book of his called Who Governs?, which is about New Haven, and that was a landmark book in political science.
And he is an absolutely wonderful man to work with.
I think the press is still publishing his books.
His field is democracy, and I guess he is certainly the most well-known scholar in that field.
And it's about New Haven, so you talk about covering a local story, so to speak.
Well, he's broadened out a lot after that.
I mean, that was a microcosm.
But I mean, just either coincidence or otherwise, it happened to be right here.
Well, New Haven was a very interesting city at that time.
It had a mayor, Robert Lee, Robert C. Lee, I guess, who was very interested in urban development, and unfortunately there were some not very good ideas that all of them were picking up at that time, like demolishing
one of the old neighborhoods of New Haven, to put in a connector from the highway.
Highways were everything.
So, Lee was a well-known mayor, and looking at this city was particularly interesting for Robert Dahl, but he was in New Haven, so that made it.
Now, that was the first time you mentioned.
Was that one of the first ones you did, or that was one of the more surprising
That book.
That was the first real book I did.
I mean, I had a couple of others that weren't terribly interesting before that.
The first real book, meaning?
Meaning important.
It was an important book in his field, and he has been a much honored author since then, and I don't know, he had published books before that, but I think that was, he really made his mark with that book.
become the editor of that?
Because it was political science.
So that was your department?
It was my department, so it came rolling in to me.
So did it come, at what point does it fall into your lap?
I mean, after it goes to the Publications Committee?
Oh, no.
Or he walks in with this proposal?
He either walks in, I don't remember whether it was a proposal or a manuscript.
It was probably a manuscript at that time.
He walks in with the manuscript, and he knew Chester.
Chester had a wide acquaintance.
And that helped a great deal.
And I would have gotten it at that stage, because it was the editor who first read it and decided whether it was worthy of our attention, and then, if so, got an outside reader to read it and make a report.
And if the report was favorable, then it went to the publications committee.
But in many cases, manuscripts fell by the wayside, either because the editor, rightly or wrongly,
thought it wasn't good enough, or it was outside really the scope of our publishing.
That is, we had nothing else in that field, which would have made it a little hard to promote.
Or we got a bad reader's report.
And sometimes if the editor... We got only one reader's report.
Many university presses got two, and I don't know what it's done now.
But we got only one, and that report, plus the editors, was enough to take a book to the Publications Committee, which could decide to accept it, and mostly they did, or they could decide they wanted another reason for one reason or another.
So a reader's report is pretty important.
Oh, extremely.
I've had four of them, and I did one for here.
I did one for the University of California, and I did one for the University of New England Press, and I'm wondering, I'm hoping I wasn't too critical.
Well... I hope I wasn't responsible for these... Well, they want your criticisms.
Because I hate to wrap an author on another one.
Well, of course, it depends on the kind of criticism.
If it's ideas that you felt were off the wall or something, why that might kill it.
If you had criticisms, it could be false.
It could be corrected in further work, or rewriting.
Which is what I basically suggested in every case.
I thought an expression left a lot to be desired.
In one project here, I thought that what I read was good, but there was so much that seemed to have been ignored.
Yes.
And that book has had to appear.
Well, that can be very helpful.
And the press could do a number of things.
First, it could simply send it back to the author and say, can you do something and then resubmit it?
Or, if it looked like a very promising project, we could take it to the Publications Committee, which could say, well, we accept it provided you do these things on it.
Or they might just
decided that it was too serious, the author wasn't likely to be able to do it.
But the Reader's Report is really critical for us, because this is a world of scholarship.
I feel a great responsibility doing that, as an author who has also felt this thing of rejection.
Yes.
Well, I can only remember one occasion, and I'm sure there were others, when I was simply unaware
when I somehow put the manuscript in the hands of somebody who violently disagreed with the author.
It was a feminist book, and a lot of different factions in the scholarly world.
And I got a devastating reader's report, which I couldn't believe, because the author was rather well-known.
And so I got another reader's report, which was favorable.
But the first one, it was clearly a case of... Picking the wrong reader, probably.
Yeah, picking the wrong reader.
I was a book review editor for a lot of years up in Massachusetts.
And to me, the most important responsibility you have is matching the right reviewer with the book.
Yes.
You get somebody that's...
That's knowing your people, of course, and not that you always want a favorable review, but you want a fair one.
No, that's right.
You want a fair reading, and you want to leave all the baggage and all the ego at the doorstep, and just kind of come in and assess the book on its merits.
I know instantly when you have somebody who's hostile for reasons that are not particularly on point with the book, and that I think you probably learned
to say, maybe I need to get another look.
And we, I mean, obviously we couldn't keep track of all the currents in the fields we dealt with.
Sometimes I would call a Yale faculty member I knew and ask if he or she didn't want to read it, to suggest a reader, and that was very helpful.
I remember
We were, for a while, without a philosophy editor.
She had left, and no one was handling philosophy, so I handled a book on William James, about whom I know very little.
And this was quite a big manuscript, and it was clear as I looked at it that it was written with authority, and I called a Yale faculty member.
And he didn't want to read it.
Unfortunately, he would have been a good reader, but he suggested a reader.
And we got a wonderful report on it and published it, and we got very well reviewed.
But, as I say, we couldn't possibly keep track of all the currents of rivalries and animosities and friendships in the scholarly world.
You mentioned the book on New Haven, Who Governs?
Any others?
And I think you probably remember that, not only because it was an important book, but it was your first big book or important book.
So what others take particular pride in having, I should, through the press, shall we say?
Well, I don't know about pride, but certainly one of the most interesting was a series of books about
four or five by a member of the law school faculty, Myers McDougall, M-Y-R-E-S, Myers McDougall.
And he, his field was international law, and oh, there was one on the law of the sea.
Each book was on some area of international law, and they were big books.
And at the time,
they were, how can I say, I don't know, well, he had a very vocal and very strong set of people who believed that he had found a new way of dealing with international law.
And I was interested to work on those, because I was very interested in international law.
In the end, I have a feeling they have dropped like stones in the ocean.
And that was one of the most curious experiences.
He had a very what I call involved style of writing.
What kind of style, sir?
Well, I say involved.
Oh, involved.
OK.
But I'm not sure that's it.
Very scholarly.
Inaccessible or inaccessible?
Inaccessible.
And he wouldn't put up with editing.
He would barely put in a comma.
And he would argue against it.
Now, who else?
A fellow named David Mayhew in the Yale Department.
He published a book of his on Congress.
I can't remember the title.
I couldn't remember titles when I was here, so I'm not good at titles, but we published a book of his on Congress, and he was quite an important author, and the Congress is of interest to a large number of political scientists, so he did well.
I think he was one of the ones who published his dissertation originally, and he became
really in his field.
What else?
Economics.
I can't think of his name or the title.
How about working with authors in particular?
Did you develop any kind of memorable professional relationships with any of your authors?
Well, I would say so.
I enjoyed very much working with authors, and I enjoyed, of course, they were working in fields I was particularly interested in, so I had a lot of friends, no close friends, but when I went to the conferences, I could see most of these people, and they tended to come back with the next manuscript.
That one's a little hard to answer, but at any rate, I had a very good group of authors, and there were very few that I had problems with.
All of us had problems with some of us.
Any regrets, things, books that got away that maybe you feel that... Yeah, there was one.
I only think of one, as a matter of fact, and I think of it now and then, because
can't remember the author's name once again, and I guess it was eventually published, but his thesis was that democracy was not very likely to take hold in Latin America because of the strong authoritarian background they had, the Catholic Church particularly, and I could not get a good report on that.
I don't know, I have a feeling that that was partly
People didn't want to endorse a theory like that.
I don't know what... I'm sure it's anti-democratic.
I don't... Or it could be perceived as being so.
Well, that is the way he perceived it, and he felt that people who were living in that kind of culture were not very likely to supposedly become Democrats, so they're democratic.
So, that's one I regret.
I think it was... Well, you regret it because you thought it was... I thought it was important.
And I thought it was worth... And it was well-researched and well-reasoned.
That's right.
And he had every right to have that theory, whether he was right or wrong.
And you thought that the role of a university press is to give a... Yes, indeed.
Something like that a forum.
That's right.
A life.
As I say, I believe
So did you champion it and lose?
I couldn't get a good reader's report, so I couldn't go further with it here.
I don't know why there probably was a reader, or there were readers somewhere, that I just didn't happen to get.
Once you get a couple of bad reports, you might as well give up.
And one thing that always gave us great comfort was that if we didn't publish a book, it was good somebody else would publish it, so that it didn't mean that
The book would never see the light of day.
And authors now and then told us we were making a mistake, and we didn't publish their books.
And I think what they meant was they wanted Yale to publish them.
So Yale has always, other than of course being Yale, but as a press has always had that distinction of being, if you're published by Yale, it's... That's right, and that matters to promotion.
committees and matters in getting a job.
To go back to what you said earlier about the reader, here's a case of where you believed in a book, and yet, so why even bother with the reader?
I mean, can't you trust your own judgment on that?
Well, the Publications Committee is a committee of scholars, and, wow, they didn't consider the editors to be scholars.
So who did you, you're just basically
Shuffling copy, in other words.
Well, not entirely.
In their view, I mean.
They listened to us, and in our view counted, but not alone.
I mean, not the only.
They wanted a scholar's take.
Yes, a scholar's approval of the manuscript.
Well, they were all scholars.
So could they have read it?
Sometimes they did.
There was usually a political scientist on the committee,
there's a committee of how many seven eight nine I remember and so editors sometimes had a member of the committee who could look at a manuscript and in a few cases the member of the committee might give the final answer on a manuscript usually unless it was strictly in the scholars field they're not going to
pretend that they can pass judgment on a manuscript and some related, but not dependent.
So, is this comparable to being peer-reviewed, or is that a whole other thing?
I would say so.
It's what the journals have always done.
I mean, that's kind of an unofficial explanation of what's going on.
That's right.
That's an interesting story.
This was something you believed in, and you thought, and I would think that The Passage of Time was borne out the thesis of the writer, too.
Well, I thought it would, but apparently that, and as I say, there probably were readers there who would have been the right readers for that manuscript, but I didn't find them.
There was an argument, and so if you don't agree with it, challenge it.
Dispute it.
Say you've got to disagree with it.
Well, I had another manuscript
I got a report challenging a lot of the manuscript.
And did I get another reader?
I may have gotten another reader who gave it a good report, generally.
And everything has to be shown to the committee.
If there's a negative report, they have to see it.
But this was a case where they thought it was just a disagreement that should be settled in another book.
something like that.
So this committee meeting must be something.
Oh, yes.
Well, the editors have to be very well prepared to defend their choices, and the members of the committee see every report, and the editor writes a report on the manuscript.
I don't think, at that time, they didn't see the financial information.
We had that, which we discussed ourselves before we went to the Publications Committee.
They didn't see that, and I remember we used to have a controversy over whether the head of the marketing department should go to those meetings, and the editors were mostly opposed to that.
We just didn't think there should be any hint that there was money.
Commerce.
There was money.
Well, do you think they go now, of course?
You do.
So that's a major change since the time you arrived in 1959.
Well, I think I was particularly opposed to it, and I don't think I'd been gone a week before.
So up until the time you left, you were opposed to it?
No, I opposed it, and I think that John Ryden was kind of in favor of it.
And the person, have you met Tina Weiner?
I have, yes.
Well, she's a wonderful person, and unusual in that she read manuscripts, I don't know whether she does now,
She read manuscripts, and this is not what marketing managers do.
And I can remember being at a meeting at the university presses, and I was talking to the director of the Harvard Press, and somehow marketing managers came up, and I said, Tina, read some of the manuscript, and he couldn't believe it.
Because, obviously, the marketing manager... How are they supposed to be able to predict a market if they don't know what the thing's about?
No, the style of writing... I can understand.
I just learned yesterday, and it doesn't surprise me, because my own book, which is coming out in November, they had the dust jacket then before they even had the manuscript.
How can they possibly do a dust jacket for a book they haven't even seen yet, you know?
They didn't have the manuscript.
Well, they did, but all it did was put more pressure on me to get the thing in, which is what I did, and I was happy to do it, but Nancy was telling me yesterday, and I said, how often do the designers read the manuscripts at Harvey, ever?
Well, the mark, I don't know about designers, although we all had first-rate designers, and I suspect the manuscript was of interest, but Tina, conscientiously, it doesn't matter, she read the manuscript, not all of them,
but ones in which he was puzzled about whether it would sell well or not.
Or just trying to determine how it's going to sell.
Yes.
But I mean, in a related way, the dust jacket is a similar thing, because it's your first look as a consumer at the book.
That's right.
If you don't know anything about it, if you're not going in to find it, it's going to be like a siren that calls you over to pick it up.
I know.
And if you do, then they've done their job, you know, and where do you go from there?
But they don't want to do that.
In fact, you pick it up, you find it's in impenetrable,
But their responsibility ends at the first sentence.
I mean, I think if they get you to the first sentence, they know the job.
And she also, if ever we wanted an author, if an author was particularly interested, as some of our authors were, obviously in marketing, she was always happy to have a, I had many, many conversations with her, with the author there.
That's wonderful.
Of the book.
It was wonderful for the author and the editor.
And she really was so good at that, and she would ask questions to try to bring out the size.
I mean, how many people are interested in money, prices, and farms changed in 14th century past?
You know, she'd find out whether there was an association of people interested in that, and she would get a lot of information directly from the author for
direct marketing to the people who might be most likely to buy the book.
And you said that you were here, essentially the first words that you used in our conversation here, that you were kind of present at a time when the press went through the sea change.
And I wonder if you could just describe that sea change for me, and how you perceived it, and what you saw, and how the press has changed.
I guess that change and survival are all different aspects of that.
Just your thoughts on that, I'd love to hear.
People talked to you about Chester Kerr and the kind of person he was.
Yes, and I'd love to hear your thoughts, in fact.
Well, he was a very active director, active in all departments.
And when I came to the press, as I say, we were in that building, and the editors had two or three offices.
There were only four or five
editors, I guess, and I don't remember too much about that, because that was really so long ago, but the first sign of the change for me was like a couple of months after I moved in, when we moved over to York Street, and we moved from this colonial, rather shabby, I don't know what it's like inside now, but it was rather shabby inside, and suddenly we're in these fancy quarters,
with this facade.
I don't know whether you've seen it on York Street.
Very modern, and the offices were very nice.
The editors had a whole separate area, and we were behind glass.
We had offices in a row, and the, I don't know what he was called, editor-in-chief, or whatever he was called, David Horne,
had a nice office with nice new furniture, so right away it was clear that something had changed in the press.
And Chester was just interested in everything we did, and there was never the kind of pressure that kept you awake at night, worrying, how can I do so much work?
But we all worked very hard, and I think it was
Chester, we knew he was anxious to build up the press to become even more an institution of prestige.
He was very active in the University Press Association.
I'm sure he was president at one time.
And I think we all kind of caught that spirit of becoming better than we were and bigger.
And I guess the only reason we knew
Or one of the reasons we knew was that there was more money available for more books.
From where?
From Chester.
We didn't have anything.
Well, I guess it was from The New Man.
This was during the sixties when we were publishing The New Man, and getting slews of money for publishing that with, I guess, practically no expenses.
I don't, I never
That was a kind of separate operation, and I never had anything to do with it.
But we were all aware that it was a thriving little industry in there, and it, as I say, I've heard that it financed the growth of the press so that if there was no question raised, if we had three books for one season and the next season we had five, nobody said, oh,
We can't ever go through the books.
And I think Chester set the figure.
I think it was 50.
Wanted to go up to 50 by some point.
So we were all trying to meet that goal.
I've heard it said, you know, charitably or not so good, that the press was Chester.
Well, it was very much Chester.
He really broke very little.
Well, he was not a difficult person to work with, but he did want his own way.
And...
As editors, he very much respected editors.
Now, I don't, he never, I guess almost never, read our books.
Occasional art books, maybe.
He never read the books?
He didn't read our books, our manuscripts.
I can't ever remember his reading a manuscript.
No kidding.
It didn't bother me at the time.
He only did if it was, or if it got interested in a book, it was something like our
Albers book.
You know about the Albers book?
Oh.
Well, what was Albers' first name?
How do you spell Albers?
A-L-B-E-R-S.
Okay.
His first name.
I can find that.
Anyway.
Albers design.
Albers, um, um, was it in the Yale School of Art, Design, whatever they call it, and, um, he, um,
was, how should I put it, his work that he's remembered for is a square.
He did a lot of squares and colors, changed the colors.
Not a cube.
No, not a cube.
With Albers, it was a square.
And he's a very well, he was a very well-known artist.
I don't know that he sold, not in the sense of selling paintings, but
for what he did with the square.
And at some point, late in his career, his students decided that we should put out a book, an Albert's book, which was a big production, because things had to be done exactly the way he wanted them.
You couldn't just reproduce one of his paintings without his supervising and his student supervising.
Well, that book really interested Chester, and I'm sure he saw every part of that book.
And I guess when we published it, it was probably the most expensive book we had up to that time.
I think, if I remember correctly, it was something like $200.
Wow.
And this was years ago when $200 was a lot of money.
Was it a success?
Pardon?
I think it was a success.
Yes, and I remember that there was pressure to reprint, and it was decided there was just no way you could reprint.
Too expensive.
Yeah, like California and that book with St.
Gall.
I mean, it was a triumph, but it was so expensive, it sold out instantly.
But people said, we can't afford to print any more of them.
And we couldn't have done it again to satisfy Albers and his students.
I mean, it was a big chore to get that book just right.
And that one, oh no, I didn't work on any art books.
But Chester was very interested in that.
He might, and he was very interested in certain authors, like Robert Dahl, and he was interested, he followed their books, and he wanted to be sure
But things were done right.
So he wasn't an editor, any kind of thing?
Oh, I think he had been an editor once, but not an editor.
So he knew the kinds of things that he wanted, but in terms of... And he was certainly not a scholar or interested.
So was that troublesome, or was that helpful in some respects?
I think I'd rather have a director who didn't read manuscripts than one who did.
He gave us a lot of freedom, and as I say, he respected us.
And very often, if we had a disagreement with some other department, he would take the editor's side.
And at that time, the editor... What was it?
We had to approve the design of the book.
And if there was something we didn't like about it, our word would... It was very nice.
Our word would carry great weight.
But he, as I say, if it was...
design versus editor, he felt pretty much the editor was right.
And that changed when John Ryden came.
I think he, the designer was usually right, and this was a little hard on us, but we survived it.
John and John read manuscripts.
Oh, yes.
Not a great number, but he did.
I knew what was going on.
Oh, yes.
He had a census.
Oh, yes, but Chester was rather what you call large presence.
I mean, not only was he physically large, but you, when he came in your office, you were well aware that Chester was there.
Well, I'm a former naval officer, and we used to say, you know, does a captain have command presence?
You know, instantly, who the captain is, without it being introduced to anybody in the room.
I mean, certain people have that aura about
They demand instant respect without having to utter a warrant, you know?
And I think you're describing Chester.
Yes.
Well, I know he was a controversial person.
Not to us, but when he became director, I think two editors, the head of the department, somebody else left.
I mean, they didn't want Chester as director, and they were gone.
And partly it could have been political, because the
The fellow-elect went to Regnery, and he was quite conservative and anti-Russian, I remember, anti-communist, anti-Russian.
Chester was a flaming liberal.
Really?
Oh, yes.
At Yale, that's amazing, isn't it?
Well, at Yale, no, it's not.
The faculty, I think, tends to be liberal, at least in the fields, certainly in political science.
I don't know about economics and law, certainly.
And I don't know about other departments.
So those are political differences, artistic differences, as I'd say in Hollywood, which occasioned the departure of these editors, right?
Well, that's what you have to do.
I mean, if you can't get along, you go on, I believe.
He's head of the editorial department.
As I say, I went to Regnery, which is a right-wing publicist.
I know.
I write for HarperCollins.
I've done three books for them.
But Regnery is, you know, I'm ever mindful of the fact that my checks are signed by Lubbock and Luddock, you know.
Oh, really?
Well, he owns HarperCollins.
I never kept track of all that, but that's one way to tell.
And my politics are decidedly different from
But I don't write political books, and they do nice books.
Well, I'm sure Chester was active, I think, in the Democratic Party.
Maybe he wasn't.
But he did things for the Democrats.
And I remember when... ...publishing to be that visibly... And I remember his telling us that he had had a man to dinner, and several other people to dinner.
named Carter, and he thought he was a good candidate for president.
That's the first time I've heard his name, probably.
The first time I ever heard of Jimmy Carter, but that's the kind of circle that Chester moved in.
He was prescient there, wasn't he?
Chris Carter since won a Nobel Prize.
Fantastic.
You've given me an hour of your time, and I don't want to overcompose on you, but if there was one
Here I am embarking on this project.
What would you like to see in a little monograph of Yale University Press?
What would interest you?